excuse me hi there this is Amanda buck
fine book binder book conservator out of
Dahlonega Georgia today I want to do a
quick video about give you a peek into
my world when books come to me that have
been improperly repaired which is very
common unfortunately I have a cloth
binding here which the cover is in great
shape but what happened was somebody the
first couple sections were loose so they
squirted some glue in and then shut the
book and let it dry so then when you go
to open the book of course it pops and
it's all ruined there's there was no way
to open this without popping that
lifting it with the scalpel
got it up to a certain degree but the
damage was done the pages were all glued
together in a big thick chunk and so
basically what I'm going to have to do
is put the pages back together page by
page and form them back into sections
and then sew them back into the text so
what could have been a quick easy repair
$50 repair of realigning the spine
riehen geing it back into the text is
now a 250 $300 job spending two days
putting the pages first 54 pages back
into sections and reselling it back into
the book so it's a shame that this book
was was ruined the owner probably cannot
afford to spend that to have it fixed so
it was unnecessarily butchered this is a
large leather binding where I see this
often where they put a cheap piece of
leather right over the top glue it right
over the top onto the original quarter
leather and spine this was done some
time ago as the leather original leather
is now melded to this new cheap leather
and
has to be removed so what I'm going to
have to do is pull this off and put on a
new quarter leather and retool the spine
and run a new Gold Line up either side
of the new leather same with the corners
they're missing so I have to put on new
leather corners and run gold lines along
the edge of the cloth and it's a shame
because we still could have had our
original leather and do a proper reback
and there probably was an original spine
- that's melted in here that's gone as
well but to make matters worse they put
about three layers of masking tape on
the hinge and then to make matters even
worse they used library tape and more
masking tape to glue this together so I
have to go in with chemicals and lift
this these two layers of tape but you
can see how that's an improper method of
free hinging a book it's just all it
does is pull on the text damage the
hinge and ruin your end sheets so if you
don't know how to properly read hinge a
book or we back a book don't go there
send it to somebody who has proper
training and has apprenticed for seven
years
and knows what they're doing so you're
not butchering these books this please
come to me day after day and they're
unnecessarily damaged further damage
then then there was probably originally
so I just wanted you to have a peek into
my world is spending a lot of time
fixing up books that were handled by
people who weren't properly trained
maybe just stick to doing cloth bindings
and don't go down the restoration
conservation route unless you have
proper training and to those of you
looking for a book binder try to find
someone who has had training under a
master book binder and has at least a
seven year apprenticeship so that they
have handled every kind of book every
kind of problem they know what they're
doing they know the intricacies of
rebinding restoring and conserving a
book thanks for tuning into the video
see you soon thanks